Documented how to configure queriers autoscaling with Jsonnet (#2128)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/deploying-grafana-mimir/jsonnet/configuring-autoscaling.md

---
title: "Configuring Grafana Mimir autoscaling with Jsonnet"
menuTitle: "Configuring autoscaling"
description: "Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir autoscaling when using Jsonnet."
weight: 30
---

# Configuring Grafana Mimir autoscaling with Jsonnet

Mimir Jsonnet supports autoscaling for the following components:

> - [Querier]({{< relref "../../architecture/components/querier.md" >}})

Reviewer: should the ruler-querier be listed separately on this list?

Author: Ruler-querier autoscaling is not a thing in Mimir OSS jsonnet yet. @ortuman or @stevesg could you add to your TODO list to upstream it (no hurry), once you feel comfortable with that?

KEDA, as we use it, never changes the number of replicas of Mimir Deployments or StatefulSets.

However, if KEDA is not running successfully, there are consequences for Mimir autoscaling too:

- `keda-operator` is down (not critical): changes to `ScaledObject` CRD will not be reflected to the HPA until the operator will get back online. HPA functionality is not affected.
- `keda-operator-metrics-apiserver` is down (critical): HPA is not able to fetch updated metrics and it will stop scaling the deployment until metrics will be back. The deployment (e.g. queriers) will keep working but, in case of any surge of traffic, HPA will not be able to detect it (because of a lack of metrics) and so will not scale up.

The [alert `MimirQuerierAutoscalerNotActive`]({{< relref "../../visualizing-metrics/_index.md" >}}) fires if HPA is unable to scale the deployment for any reason (e.g. unable to scrape metrics from KEDA metrics API server).

## How Kubernetes HPA works

Refer to Kubernetes [Horizontal Pod Autoscaling](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/) documentation to have a full understanding of how HPA works.

## How to enable autoscaling

> The following Jsonnet configuration snippet shows an example of how to enable Mimir autoscaling with Jsonnet:

Reviewer 2: It is unclear for me here whether KEDA will be installed by just running this, or I need to install KEDA separately. Can we make that explicit?

Reviewer 2: Great, thanks.

```jsonnet
local mimir = import 'mimir/mimir.libsonnet';

mimir {
    _config+:: {
        // Enable queriers autoscaling.
        autoscaling_querier_enabled: true,
        autoscaling_querier_min_replicas: 10,
        autoscaling_querier_max_replicas: 40,
        autoscaling_prometheus_url: 'http://prometheus.default:9090/prometheus',
    }
}
```

## How to disable autoscaling

There are two options to disable autoscaling in a Mimir cluster:

> 1. Set minimum replicas = maximum replicas
> 2. Decommission HPA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set minimum replicas = maximum replicas.
2. Decommission HPA.
```

---
title: "Configuring Grafana Mimir autoscaling with Jsonnet"
menuTitle: "Configuring autoscaling"
description: "Learn how to configure Grafana Mimir autoscaling when using Jsonnet."
weight: 30
---

# Configuring Grafana Mimir autoscaling with Jsonnet

Mimir Jsonnet supports autoscaling for the following components:

- [Querier]({{< relref "../../architecture/components/querier.md" >}})

> Autoscaling is implemented using Kubernetes Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) and is based on Prometheus metrics and [KEDA](https://keda.sh).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Autoscaling, which is based on Prometheus metrics and [KEDA (Kubernetes-based Event Driven Autoscaler)](https://keda.sh), uses Kubernetes’ Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA).
```
* Do we care that is implemented using or simply uses?

Reviewer 3: Do you expect the user to be more familiar with "KEDA" or "Kubernetes-based Event Driven Autoscaler"?
